# excerptions-about-the-history-philosophical-foundation-and-legal-system-of-human-rights
<!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>from Human rights: a very short introduction [1] | GPTdeepresearch[2]</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>--At times, human right protections may seem to be anti-majoritarian; indeed, human rights may serve to protect people from the tyranny of the majority [1]. Human rights are invoked to stop governments and actors from pursuing expedient policies at the expense of the well-beings of certain individuals and the proper functioning of the democratic society under the rule of law. Government, activists, or United Nations documents today almost certainly refer to human rights as that recongnized in international and national laws and decrees rather than rights in a moral or philosophical sense, of which, of course, the debates will continue to illuminate(or sometimes obscure) the reason why we think human rights are important to be defended, critized, and reform all sorts of behaviours. But for the moment, the content of human rights is usually understood by references to legal catalogue with intrinsic developments found in text form. The key text that shift the legal approachs responding to the demand for concrete protection of inherent human rigths, previously in face of critisim of desires and selfishness, into positive law is Hersch's influential book in 1945, An International Bill of the Rights of Man, drawing on a range of natural rights thinking and constitutionally protected rights to argue for and to be assimilated in a written Bill of Rights, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the UN assembly in 1948. The historical development of international protection of human rights in the twenty century has multiple layers: a rationale for fighting the world war, entering into treaties and declarations for protection of self-determination and statehood for autonomy of nationality, certain minority rights, international worker's rights, and for abolition of slavery, and so forth.</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p><em><strong>Profound antecedents from the Medieval period</strong></em></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>In hindsight, the standard account of the traditional human right, which says the early legal development of human rights emerged from the very Magna Carta of 1215, a contract between English King John and the barons who were dissatisfied with the tax levied by the monarch, problematically confined its Habeas Corpus simply to rights to trial by jury granted exclusively to property-owning men, referred to as the guaranteed right of a freeman not to be "arrested, or detained in prison, or deprived of his freehold, outlawed, or banished, or in any way molested." As well as being restricted to a selected group, the English Bill of Rights in 1689 is, in fact, a political statement between a Parliament and a King, despite its decalaration that “no excessive fine be imposed; nor cruel and unusual punishment [be] inflicted". It also stated, however, ‘That the subjects which are Protestants, may have arms for their defence suitable to their conditions, and as allowed by law.’ ”</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p><em><strong>Philosophy of human rights conincidently prospered</strong></em> </p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>The philosophical magnum opus had very conceret influence of contemporary revolution.</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p> John Locke's Second Treaties of Government in 1690, considered man in "a state of nature", intrisically qualities such as "state of liberties", yet not "state of licence". John locke reasoned that "everyone is bound to preserve himself", and when his own preservation is not threatened everyone should "as much as he can...preserve the rest of mankind", and no one, even the man himself, may "take away or impair the life, and what tends to the preservation of the life, the liberty, health, limb,or good of another". A plausibe view that "every man has the right to punish the offender and be executioner of the law of nature" is repudiated by John Locke as an unworkable "strange doctrine", rather than being affirmed that men remain in the state of nature until they consent to become members of "some politics society", because civil government is considered as the remedy for man acting their own judges to enforce the law of nature. He considered social contract, freely entered into, entitled the government respected the trust endowed; on the other hand, shoud the people be subjected to the exercise by the government of absolute or arbitrary power over their "lives, liberties, and estates", then, according to Locke, government power would be forfeited and divolved back to people. </p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>Jean-Jacques Rousseau's The Social Contract in 1762 allegedly enforces man to be free by depriving of natural liberty, and an unlimited right to all temptings, and in return endowing civil liberty, proprietorship of all his possess.' The Social Contract was a precursor to French revolution of 1789 and its idea influences worldwide as people have sought to articulate the right of the governors and the governed; </p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>Despite the ambiguity of the definition of human rights in Thomas Paine's writings, and the theoretical foundations resting little more than elaborations upon Locke and Rousseau, his widely read pamphlet <strong>Common Sense</strong> attacked the idea of rule by monarchy and called for republican government and equal rights among citizens. He also worked on the 1776 Constitution of Pennsylvania and for the subsequent abolition of slavery in that state. Paine’s publication, entitled <strong>Rights of Man</strong>, appeared in 1791 as a defense of the French Revolution in response to Edmund Burke’s <em>Reflections on the Revolution in France</em>. His writings still resonate, and one does not have to look far to find bumper stickers and badges with Paine’s aphorism from <em>his Rights of Man</em>: ‘My country is the world, and my religion is to do good.’</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>German philosopher Immanuel Kant and other following fellows have endeavered to derive the logic of human rights from the absolute moral principles following imperatives, which are that, firstly, each rational agent ought to act only on those principles that could rightly be expected of all others in equivalent circumstances, and that, secondly, a person should never be treated as a mean to an end, but rather as an end in themselves. The starting points for rights theories emphasize the important of individual autonomy and agency as primordial values.</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>For Karl Marx, these rights stressed the individual's preoccupations, rather than providing human emancipation from religion, property, and law. Marx has a vision of a future community in which all needs would be satisfied, and in which there would be no conflicts of interests and, therefore, no role for rights and their enforcement. Marx also highlighted the puzzle that if rights could be limited for public good then the proclamation that the aim of political rights is the protection of rights is convoluted, which is indeed an issue of how to balance individual's interests and public good. The following is the crux of Marx's argument: “It is puzzling enough that a people which is just beginning to liberate itself, to tear down all the barriers between its various sections, and to establish a political community, that such a people solemnly proclaims (Declaration of 1791) the rights of egoistic man separated from his fellow men and from the community, and that indeed it repeats this proclamation at a moment when only the most heroic devotion can save the nation, and is therefore imperatively called for, at a moment when the sacrifice of all the interests of civil society must be the order of the day, and egoism must be punished as a crime. (Declaration of the Rights of Man, etc., of 1793.) This fact becomes still more puzzling when we see that the political emancipators go so far as to reduce citizenship, and the political community, to a mere means for maintaining these so-called rights of man, that therefore the citoyen is declared to be the servant of egoistic homme, that the sphere in which man acts as a communal being is degraded to a level below the sphere in which he acts as a partial being, and that, finally, it is not man as citoyen, but man as bourgeois who is considered to be the essential and true man.</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p><strong>The Universal Declaration of Human Rights</strong></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>The establishment of the United Nations signalled the beginning of a period of unprecedented international concern for the protection of human rights. Under the auspices of the UN, several key instruments were established for the promotion and protection of human rights. The day after the adoption of the Genocide Convention, the General Assembly proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ‘as a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations’.</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>Philosophy foundations upon which the Decalaration is based, using the language similar to the French Decalaration of 1789:"All human beings are born equal and free in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood." The decalaration therefore stresses the inherent value of human dignity, which should be recognized as "without distinction of any kind". The decalaration sets certain limitations on the exercise of human rights, recognizing the need for social order for full realization of human rights, as an apperception of Rousseau's philosophy. The limits imposed by these duties must be determined by law, and can only be for the purposes of securing due recognition and respect for the rights of others and to meet 'the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a democratic society'.</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>The major controversy for diplomats at the time of decalaration's adoption was not the validity of values contained in the Decalaration, but rather the antagonism between the socialist bloc and the West. In the end, the Socialist States were unable to achieve their version of economic and social rights and abstained from the vote of Decalarations. The Western power, while keen to trumpet their own political model as superior, were at the same time careful to ensure the Decalaration had no immediate legal effect. </p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“Are human rights now really universal? While it is true that African and Asian governments currently accept the Universal Declaration and have signed various human rights treaties, such a formalistic response fails to capture the cultural differences in the appreciation of what human rights are about, and what new obligations ought to be included in the catalogue. An-Na’im suggests that the feeling of a lack of cultural legitimacy can be addressed through a cross-cultural critique of behaviour which builds on locally accepted norms. The pressing issue is not so much whether the representatives in 1948 legitimize the claims of universality, but rather how we now build a universal appreciation for these ideas.”</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“The delegation of the USSR could not accept article 20, which did nothing to solve the question. Complete freedom to disseminate ideas did not solve the problem of freedom of expression. There were dangerous ideas the diffusion of which should be prevented, war-mongering and fascist ideas for instance...It was no use to argue that idea should only be opposed by other ideas; ideas had not stopped Hitler making war...That article also make no provision for the free dessemination of just and the lofty ideas. If freedom was to be effective, the workers must have the means of voting their opinions, and for that they must have at their disposal printing presses and newspapers. The USSR delegation had proposed the idea that the article should be amended so as to give the workers the material means to express themselves, but the USSR amendation had been rejected on the pleas that it might permit the State to restrict freedom of expression.</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“Some governments object to the demand that human rights include the concept of ‘collective rights’ for indigenous peoples or minorities. This objection is based on a particular appreciation of what human rights should be about (for example, some derive human rights from the starting point that there is an imagined social contract between the individual and the state); it is, however, hard to square this conceptual objection with the explicit recognition in Western countries of certain ‘human’ rights guarantees for entities such as newspapers (for freedom of expression), trade unions (for freedom of association), and companies (for respect for their property and premises). Similarly, contemporary debate about economic, social, and cultural rights is held hostage by those who consider that one cannot conceive of rights to housing, health, and education as judically enforceable entitlements--better to see them as asperations, public policy goals, or simply socialist rhetoric. </p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>Even if “there is apparent universal acceptance of the human rights message, there is still discord over what constitutes a human right and how rights should be implemented. Clearly a starting point should be enforcement at the national level. Today, in many states national laws reproduce, or give effect to, international human rights (i.e. international human rights are ‘translated’ into the national legal order). Needless to “say, this is by no means a perfect process and many rights get ‘lost in translation'.</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“Furthermore, as we move from lofty proclamations to detailed implementation and accountability, we encounter the reaction that rights have to be implemented according to the cultural and economic context of the country concerned. This is sometimes seen as the death knell for the credibility of the so-called ‘universality’ of human rights. It is, however, a mistake to imagine that human rights can, or should, operate divorced from any local context. Even the application of an accepted right, such as the right to life, can beg different interpretations depending on the context. In a recent case concerning a dispute between two estranged parents of frozen embryos, the European Court of Human Rights held that:<br>in the absence of any European consensus on the scientific and legal definition of the beginning of life, the issue of when the right to life begins comes within the margin of appreciation which the Court generally considers that States should enjoy in this sphere.”</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p><strong>The International Covenant </strong></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“Following the adoption of the Universal Declaration, the UN’s Human Rights Commission began work on a legally binding text in the form of a treaty together with measures for implementation. Governments had decided that there should be a binding multilateral treaty on human rights to complement the existing Declaration. Due to political disagreements about including all types of rights within one treaty, the General Assembly requested the Commission to draft two separate covenants – one on ‘civil and political’ rights, and another on ‘economic, social and cultural’ rights. On 16 December 1966, the General Assembly adopted the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Both came into force in 1976.”</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights covers human rights in areas including education, food, housing, and “health care, as well as the right to work and to just and favourable conditions of work. A state that becomes a party to the Covenant agrees to take steps for the progressive realization of Covenant rights to the full extent of that state’s available resources. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights safeguards rights such as rights to life, liberty, fair trial, freedom of movement, thought, conscience, peaceful assembly, family, and privacy. It also prohibits slavery; torture; cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment; and punishment, discrimination, arbitrary arrest, and imprisonment for debt. Both Covenants start with an Article that reads:<br>All peoples have the right of self-determination. By virtue of that right they freely determine their political status and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development.&nbsp;”</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“These two Covenants, taken together with the Universal Declaration, are sometimes referred to as the ‘International Bill of Rights”</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“The ideological and political struggle between the superpowers dominated the international human rights agenda during the 1950s, and the initial post-war momentum that led to the adoption of the Universal Declaration diminished considerably. However, the human rights impetus at the United Nations gained momentum again in the early 1960s, primarily as a result of decolonization. Most of the African and Asian countries that had been under colonial rule when the UN was founded were now becoming independent. Many of these states had a particular interest in human rights issues as a result of their colonial history. UN membership quickly doubled and, by the mid-1960s, developing countries became the “largest voting bloc in the General Assembly. The participation of these states stimulated the human rights activities of the UN and took the international human rights agenda in new directions.<br></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p><strong>“Other human rights treaties adopted at the United Nations”</strong></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“The Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment came into force in 1987. The Convention includes a definition of torture (for the purposes of the Convention), and insists that any party to it undertakes obligations: to take measures to prevent acts of torture in any territory under its jurisdiction; not to return any person to a state where there are substantial grounds for believing that that person would be in danger of being subjected to torture; and to ensure that acts of torture can be prosecuted in the courts of that state even though those acts occurred abroad. </p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>The International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and their Families entered into force in 2003. Unfortunately, the states that have accepted obligations under this treaty are mostly states that export migrant workers rather than those that host them. This diminishes the effectiveness and scope of the treaty obligations and means that those states that host migrant workers avoid the reach of this treaty and the prospect of supervision by the monitoring body.</p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p>“the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. It establishes the prospect of national prosecutions and extraditions for the crime of enforced disappearance. This crime is defined as: <em>the arrest, detention, abduction or any other form of deprivation of liberty committed by agents of the State or by persons or groups of persons acting with the authorization, support or acquiescence of the State, followed by a refusal to acknowledge the deprivation of liberty or by concealment of the fate or whereabouts of the disappeared person, which place such a person outside the protection of the law.</em></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph --> <!-- wp:paragraph --> <p></p> <!-- /wp:paragraph -->
